---
layout: default
---

#Development

The CMS is based on well known technologies from the nodejs world like
[express](http://expressjs.com), [socket.io](http://socket.io), JSON storage,
JSON based express sessions and JADE templates.


* [Debugging](#debugging)
* [Templates](#templates)
* [Plugins](#plugins)

## Shovel apps CMS Folder structure


    
    ├── config
    │   └── default.json // The default config file. Generated by the installer
    ├── filestorage // All data is stored under this directory
    ├── lib // Shovelapps-cms core libraries
    ├── plugins // 
    ├── server.js  // this is the process that is lifted by the start scripts
    ├── start.sh  // Linux/OSX start script
    ├── start.bat  // Windows start batch script
    ├── templates
    │   ├── admin
    │   ├── bootstrap-3-jade
    └── README.md
    

### About the CMS's storage

Users data, session data and editables are stored locally in the filesystem in these folders:

* [filestorage/db]// User and editables data
* [filestorage/tmp]. Temporary App's source code in a `zip` file after a build request.
* [filestorage/.session]// Session data *(Using express-session-json module);

## Templates

Templates are the base for an app. An hybrid app should respect the mobile OSs
standards and this task is difficult to achieve from pure HTML and having to rely
on multiple tools and iterations in order for the app to have a design consistent
with the mobile's OS look & feel.

Shovel apps CMS templates offer a precise UI structure for designing a professional
app that is designed with the practiques you may already use in web development
as your own CSS or the [IDE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integrated_development_environment) of your choide.

### How to make a template

Templates are written in the [Jade](http://jade-lang.com/) language. 
*Jade allows you to write HTML code that is not bogus in terms of orphan tags.*

1. Create a directory  called `mytemplate` under the `templates` dir.
1. Start from an `index.jade`. Put all of your page there. For example,
download a responsive template from some bootstrap  theme providers for example. **Tip:** *If you want to try with your own HTML, convert it to JADE with [HTML to Jade converter](http://html2jade.aaron-powell.com/)*.
1. Create an assets folder under `templates/mytemplate`. **All files in assets will be available at the `assets/` URL in your apps frontend**.

### Recommendations about assets and libraries for your app

* Load phonegap.js
* Load cordova.js
* Recommend loading jQuery
* Recommend loading FastClick
* Plugins and templates are written in jade
* Jade offers tidinees to other developers and designers. When the user or 
  another developers will 
  rarely find basic nesting issues with HTML tags that often cause misalignments.


####About paths in template files

* Use relative paths in the templates in order to keep consistent with 
the final structure that the app will have inside phonegap


####Variables available to templates (locals)

* `config.app`
* `isPreviewing`
* `session`

## Debugging

Shovel apps CMS uses the `debug` module and debugs under the namespace `"cms*"`.

So in order to see debug messages logged by **shovelapps CMS** run it like this

```
$ DEBUG='cms*' server.js
```

Or if you prefer, watch every module log with

```
$ DEBUG='*' server.js 
```

##Plugins

Plugins extend **Shovel apps CMS**'s backend features or the frontend by using extra
scripts or whatever HTML you want for extending the core.

###File structure of a plugin


    shovelapps-cms
    └── plugins
         └── chat
            ├── chat.html
            └── index.js

###Required files

You need at least an `index.js` file inside the plugin directory.


####index.js

The file `index.js` is a regular `common.js` module. I.e. you write it
like any other module that is loaded by `var plugin  = require("plugin")`.
**Shovel apps CMS** will run that `index.js` like that on start. 

In fact, it will asumme the plugin exports a function (`module.exports = functionName`)
and calls it with 3 arguments that let you extend the CMS.


    module.exports = myModuleInit;

    function myModuleInit(app, server, sockets) {
      
    }


#####Plugin exported function

The function exported by the `index.js` of a plugin receives these 3 arguments

* **app:**. The express app object (i.e, the request handler by calling `express()` ). 
* **server:** The server on which this plugin is being initialized
* **sockets:** **Shovel apps CMS** creates three websockets for communicating 
with the **App frontend**, the **CMS Admin Panel** and **Shovel apps build Platform**.
The latter connection allows the CMS to build the app for you without worrying
about a Phonegap installation. 
*  * **socket.frontend**. A `socket.io` server for the default namespace (`/`).
*  * **socket.adminpanel**. A `socket.io` server to the  namespace (`/admin`).
*  * **socket.adminpanel**. A `socket.io` server to the  namespace (`/admin`).

The exported function will receive `app`, `server` and `sockets` parameters
in order for you to extend the CMS. *Remember, the cms backend is an express app*.
